#summary PostGIS setup manual

=== Introduction ===

 If you want use OpenStreetMap in GPS Photo Tagger you need PostGIS server properly installed at your computer. PostGIS is part of Ubuntu repository but some more work is needed to set it up.

=== Packages ===

 You should install following packages in Ubuntu:

 * postgresql-8.4-postgis
 * postgresql-contrib-8.4

 `sudo apt-get install postgresql-8.4-postgis postgresql-contrib-8.4`

=== Create database ===

 Now login as _postgres_ user by command `sudo su - postgres` and run following commands:

 * `createdb -E UTF8 gis`
 * `createlang plpgsql gis`
 * `psql -d gis -f /usr/share/postgresql/8.4/contrib/_int.sql`
 * `psql -d gis -f /usr/share/postgresql/8.4/contrib/postgis.sql`
 * `createuser -S -D -R gis`
 * `echo "\password gis" | psql`
 * `wget http://trac.openstreetmap.org/browser/applications/utils/export/osm2pgsql/900913.sql?format=raw -O 900913.sql`
 * `psql -d gis -f ./900913.sql`
 * `wget http://downloads.cloudmade.com/europe/czech_republic/czech_republic.osm.bz2 -O czech_republic.osm.bz2`
 * `osm2pgsql -m -s -d gis ./czech_republic.osm.bz2`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE geometry_columns TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE planet_osm_line TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE planet_osm_nodes TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE planet_osm_point TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE planet_osm_polygon TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE planet_osm_rels TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE planet_osm_roads TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE planet_osm_ways TO gis;" | psql -d gis`
 * `echo "GRANT SELECT ON TABLE spatial_ref_sys TO gis;" | psql -d gis`

 The 6th command will ask you for new password. Please choose some and fill it in _settings.xml_ file.

 You can also visit http://downloads.cloudmade.com/ and choose your desired region and change URL address in command. Commands above are designed for Czech Republic.

 Now you should have installed your PostGIS server with OpenStreetMap installed. Database is now read only accessible by user _gis_ and read write accessible by user _postgres_.

=== Sources ===

 If you use another Linux distribution or if you want more informations please visit sites below:

 * http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Mapnik
 * http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Mapnik/PostGIS